>> Today on "Nuevo," the
analysis of the metal recovered
from inside an extraterrestrial
ship that came down in San
Antonio, New Mexico.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo,"
with Jaime Maussan.
>> On August 16, 1945, barely a
month after an atomic bomb was
detonated in New Mexico, only 10
miles away from the bomb site,
a ship fell from the sky and
members of the Padilla family
saw it happen.
This detonation was later
called name Trinity.
>> The ship measured about
five meters high and 10 meters
in diameter.
It crashed into a brick tower
that had an antenna on top.
After impacting
the tower, it fell
to the ground, skid
for about 70 meters
until it stopped on
a sandbank, which
was part of an old stream bed.
The object, or
airship, was damaged
and had a hole in it more than
3 meters high and 2 meters wide.
Two young children-- Jose
Padilla, seven years old,
and Remigio Baca, Reme, six
years old-- saw the crash.
With their binoculars,
they observed
odd looking beings that
moved inside the ship
for almost two hours.
They could see that they
were about the same height
as they were and stood a
little more than a meter tall.
They had four fingers on
each hand, elongated eyes,
and no hair or
ears on their head.
They were wearing suits which
were tight to their bodies.
One of the beings was lying on
the ground and did not move.
This strange occurrence
happened on August 20, 1945.
About 48 hours later,
the army showed up.
Soon the site was fenced off,
and an access gate was built.
The men examined the ship
and searched for parts.
For one week, seven
military personnel
hunted for any other remains
that might have been missed.
Every day, the two
children returned
to observe them at a distance
with their binoculars.
On the last day the
army was there--
August 28, 1945--
the ship was loaded
onto a military
transport vehicle.
That night, they
left their cargo
unattended and went to the
Owl Bar Cafe in San Antonio.
While they were gone, Jose and
Reme climbed into the truck,
entered the object, extracted
a souvenir from inside,
then took it home, and hid it.
Later, military personnel
showed up at their homes
but couldn't find anything.
Then something happened
that seems to be straight
out of a science fiction story.
>> Well, we were having
breakfast one morning.
And so the door--
I heard the knock of the door.
And of course, I answered
it, opened the door,
and there he was.
He says, I need to
talk to your dad.
And my dad heard that--
come on in, you know.
Hey, he says, come on in
and have a cup of coffee.
We're just about done with
breakfast here, you know.
And so he gave him a cup
of coffee, and he sat down.
And they talked about
all times, you know,
because my dad used to do
that kind of work, too.
And so he said, well, you
know, what do you got?
And he says, well-- he
says, you know, Alejandro,
I hate to bother you.
But last night, I was asleep,
and I heard this noise.
And I looked outside
the window, and there's
this light right
by the well, right
where you've got all that
wood, the pile of wood.
And there's this
light out there.
And then the next
thing I know, there's
these two ugly creatures
that are standing right
in front of me.
And he says, what
ugly creatures?
He says, well, you
know, they were there.
and they had their fingers
pointed down under the floor.
And they're saying, Tesoro.
OK.
When they said that,
my heart kind of
dropped because that's
the name of the piece.
That's a Tesoro.
That was our Tesoro,
our treasure.
That was our souvenir.
And I says, you know, all hell's
going to break loose, right?
Because now my dad's
going to find out.
He don't know nothing
about all this stuff.
You know, he can't be told.
Eddie suggested that he
not be told because he
worked for the government.
You know what they do to people
that talk about all this stuff?
They lose their jobs because
that's classified stuff,
you know.
So my dad says, well,
and what happened?
Well, he says, I grabbed
my gun, and these creatures
went through the wall.
He says, you won't
believe it, Alejandro.
They went right
through the wall.
And so my dad said, OK.
Well, let's go down
there and take a look.
And so he got a
shovel, got one of my--
my older brother,
and got a shovel,
and went over
across the street--
so maybe like 100 feet--
and went over to the room.
And they pulled the planks out.
And he says, OK,
where was he pointing?
It was right there in
the middle, you know.
So dug a hole
there in the middle
and didn't find anything.
I guess it wasn't there.
Oh, man.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
Thank you, god.
>> Years later, Reme Baca showed
us the piece that he and his
friend had taken from that
ship more than 70 years ago.
The metal piece was part
of the central panel.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: Yes.
That's from the inside.
It was like that in a--
oh yeah, in a panel.
Yeah.
We didn't know what it was.
The reason that we
removed this piece
is that he wanted
something to take with us.
A lot of people we know--
brothers and cousins and
folks that were in the war--
asked me to bring
them something that we
could keep, like a memento.
So we understood that.
Anyway, this ship had
lots of stuff in it.
And we wanted something that we
could take home, something that
was from this strange ship.
So I said to Jose,
why don't we grab
something that looks, you
know, interesting, so we can
show our friends what we found?
So we managed to take a panel
piece and put it in our truck.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: It's
really incredible
because we didn't have any idea
what we had or what its use was
or where it's from.
So here we are years later,
and I'm showing you the part
that we hid for so long.
It's really something, isn't it?
I said to Jose, I wonder
what it's made of?
He goes, I don't know.
Do you?
But we didn't know.
The ship looked strange.
Now I think about it, it
was maybe 14 feet tall,
30 or 40 feet long.
I'd never seen anything like it.
Jose, either-- we
were both amazed.
We were just kids, six
or seven years old.
And when you're that age,
you don't understand stuff.
>> Reme Baca analyzed the part
in the laboratory in England.
The results astonished
the researchers.
The piece had carbon
nanotubes, a technology unknown
in the year of 1945.
They also found what appeared
to be circuits integrated
into the metal and probably
connected to a mainframe
computer in the ship.
If these evaluations
were correct,
the ship would far exceed
the technology of 1945.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: And this
is what they found.
This is a printout.
OK.
That is some form of aluminum.
It maybe carbon, but
I'm not a scientist.
I guess they say it looks
like some kind of carbon
tubes of some kind.
We didn't fully understand
what that means--
carbon tubes.
Well, we started to
fire it up to see
what the carbon tubes did.
The reason it's
cold all the time
is because it transfers the
heat from one to the other.
And it goes out.
That's why it's cold.
You can't warm it up.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: Yeah.
They did.
I've been fascinated
by this experience.
That was one of the things.
The other thing they found and
didn't understand was this.
Now they're looking
inside this part,
inside very strange designs.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: The
scientists-- the scientists
that studied it said that they
looked like insects, you know.
They looked like
centipedes like that.
But we don't know.
>> It was evident that they
were faced with an unknown
technology.
And so they searched
for a scientist that
could interpret this discovery.
>> What is this?
>> For the circuit.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> And this is from Earth?
>> This is from Earth.
This is from here.
>> That's a first--
>> That's the first
picture that we--
that's a first-- the very
first kind of printed circuits
that we have.
And these printed circuits--
it's inside the metal?
>> That's right.
>> Then it's very sophisticated.
>> These designs are
thinner than a hair.
The measurements that
are printed on the image
show that regardless of the
function of these design
circuits, it is an unimaginable
technology for the 1940s.
>> When you are looking at
this piece and you're looking
at this, and we've
got a circuit,
an electrical circuit
that they had in there.
So how did that craft fly
when we did not see anywhere
where they had any engine?
OK.
There wasn't no motors.
There wasn't no leverage.
There was no gauges.
We know that.
We were in there.
There was no place where we
would have taken them off.
OK.
If there had been
something that had
been a hole in
there or something--
there was nothing like that.
So how do they drive that?
What kind of a mechanism?
And so what some
of the opinions are
that these suits that
Corso talks about there
had circuits in them.
And they interfaced
with this, and this
interfaced with the ship.
OK.
How do we know that this
material was just inside
and the outside was not
made of that same material?
Well, we know because of this.
This was found in our
time there, you know,
in the past 10 years.
>> Other evidence of the strange
characteristics of this metal
was found when a piece of metal
recovered at the accident site
was subjected to fire.
>> This was found embedded
in the Cholla cactus there
in the last 10 years as such.
And the cactus was dry.
So the cactus would have
been anywhere up to 100 years
because they lived
up to be 100 years.
And then they died and dried.
So it served its purpose.
OK.
this is an outside piece.
And we believe it's
an outside piece
because when they put an
acetylene torch on this piece,
aluminum will melt at
550 to 700 degrees.
That's what it-- that's a known.
That's how it does.
They put a torch, and they
ran it up to 2000 degrees.
And what did you get?
It went through there, and it
melted out on the other side.
After the death of
Remigio Baca, the piece
extracted from the ship was sent
to Jose Padilla in New Mexico.
Mr. Padilla agreed to provide
us with a small sample
to carry out an analysis.
>> I'm going to cut this
a little piece off of here
and give it to you so
that you can have a test.
A piece that I wanted to keep
as a souvenir to let the people
know, you know, that I found
something that doesn't belong
to us, is not from this world.
But there is a lot of people
that think that I lie.
Even my older sister
thought that it a lie
and that it was impossible that
I took this thing out of there.
That's when I drove all the way
to California to the hospital
where she was.
And I asked her if she was
there, and she says, no.
Well, I was.
I experienced it, not her.
And that was it.
>> Your father never told them?
>> Well, my father used to work
as a ranger for the Bosque Del
Apache Refuge.
And they didn't want
to spread anything
because of the military,
especially when my father and I
used to pick up a lot
of weather balloons
that belonged to the military.
And they thought that
that UFO was part of it.
But when this came out
there, they took an inventory
and loaded that
object on the trailer.
And someone went over
and took a part of.
When they got over
to the White Sands,
they took another
inventory list,
and a part of was missing.
That's when they sent
soldiers up there
to check and see what-- and
they came over to the ranch.
That's when I didn't get scared.
I never been scared of nobody.
That's where I took this part
from underneath the floor
on the ranch and took
it over to Reme's house.
>> Very hard?
>> No.
>> It's not--
>> It's hard.
But the only way that--
this will not melt. Because
I melt another piece,
and it doesn't melt
from the outside.
It bubbles from the inside out.
[SAWING]
>> You're too fast.
>> Thank you.
Thank you.
>> Here's some dust.
>> The pieces were carefully
stored for further analysis.
In Mexico, we
proceeded to take them
to the [INAUDIBLE]
Laboratories where
they were further analyzed.
>> Fluorescence analysis and
digital radio graphs were
performed to analyze
the chemical composition
of the metals and the internal
structure of the metals.
It was determined that they
correspond to two aluminum
alloys--
A332 and A380 that contain
88.71% aluminum, 6.97% silicon,
0.82% iron, 0.18% manganese,
0.19% nickel, 0.63% zinc,
and 0.04% tin.
Regarding the
digital radiographs,
it was observed that
these pieces were
very porous beyond
what's normal in a metal
with these characteristics.
It's not known if they could
be carbon nanotubes that
would help this metal stay
cold, despite the application
of high intensity heat.
Aluminum is the most
abundant metal on Earth.
8% of our planet
contains aluminum.
It was discovered
in 1820, but it
wasn't until the end
of the 19th century
that an accessible method
of extraction was developed.
The name of alumin was
used by [INAUDIBLE]..
But it wasn't until 1722 that
it was considered a metal.
During the First World War, 5%
of all metals were aluminum.
In World War II,
aluminum was widely used.
In 1941, the first
tests were carried out
to create an aluminum
alloy combined
with magnesium by the Canadian
scientist Lloyd Montgomery
Pidgeon.
It wasn't until
the end of the '40s
that more emphasis was
placed on aluminum alloys.
And then in the '50s,
more sophisticated alloys
would be developed.
However, in 1945 when Jose
Padilla and Reme Baca, who
claimed to have extracted
the piece of metal
from the alien ship,
this type of alloy
had not even been
developed or invented yet.
No historical reference
has been found
that demonstrates that such
metal compounds existed
at that time.
Today, the aluminum
alloy is common.
But in August 1945,
it was unknown.
If the authenticity of
the dates is confirmed,
it could also be established
that the first alien ship
discovery could have
served to assist
our scientists to develop
more sophisticated alloys
and thus improve production
practices for aluminum
technologies that would
be used in the future.
The images obtained in England
with an electron microscope
demonstrate the
presence of what appears
to be electronic circuits
similar to the circuits
of today's modern computers.
Even more surprising
was the analysis
carried out by the
Analytical Educational Center
in Mexico City.
The analysis was performed by
a Thermo Scientific iCE 3000
Atomic Absorption Spectrometer.
The examination results
confirmed an alloy
based on aluminum.
It was even identified
as an alloy of duralumin.
However, 15% of the
compounds were not
identified, very
possibly because they
are non-organic materials.
The chemist that performed the
analysis was Maria [INAUDIBLE]..
We were able to interview Maria
and get a better understanding
of what she found.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: These
materials are currently
used in many types of alloys
with different characteristics,
such as avoiding corrosion,
avoiding rust, et cetera.
But what is confusing is that
it appears none of these alloys
have any organic content.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: Well,
first we would
have to determine what
is the concentration
of the organic
material and find out
if it is indeed an
organic material
or what kind of material it
is and what percentage it is
and what its function is.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: Well, steel
itself is an alloy with carbon.
That's quite common.
But the types of alloys in
this material with aluminum
are not common.
For example, we have duralumin.
That complies with the
proportions of the material
that we analyzed.
But this material's
components are well known.
And in no way does it contain
any organic component.
>> This organic material could
be made of carbon nanotubes.
And even by the
components that seem
to be circuits integrated
into the metal,
it is an unconventional
finding that
seems to show that the
piece would have been
impossible to make in 1945.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: Well, in all
analytical measurement
techniques, there is
a margin of error.
That margin of error depends
a lot on the technique used.
In the case of atomic
fusion, the margin
can be 5.5% and even
parts per million.
But a percentage of 15% is
very high for this material
because current analytical
techniques have advanced a lot.
And there is a lot of very
good technology, which allows
it to reach quite low levels.
But 15% is a
considerable amount that
is worth studying and
determining its origin.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: It has only
been about 100 years
since a viable production
process was established.
But such complex alloys,
as far as I know,
weren't around
until 1970 when they
began to make many types
of aluminum-based alloys.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: Well,
it is an analysis
that requires not only the
chemistry part but also
many other aspects that,
well, I couldn't carry out
without the collaboration
of professionals
from different
areas of expertise.
With mutual support
for this type of study,
it requires different kinds
of work and examination.
Just being able to examine and
work on a piece of this type
is very interesting.
It is one of the most
fascinating cases
that I have encountered
because it is something
that I have never
seen, and in fact, I
didn't even know existed.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
INTERPRETER: Of course.
I am very interested.
It is one of the
most stimulating
things I have ever examined.
So yes.
I would like to
continue working with it
until I find the final function
of each of these elements.
Because each of the elements
that the alloy contains
has a function.
For example, zinc
has the function
of preventing corruption.
Aluminum is a metal that
oxidizes very easily.
And combining it with
magnesium and manganese it
has the function of
giving greater resistance
to oxidation.
On the other hand, iron
adds hardness to the metal
because aluminum is very
malleable and breaks easily.
So iron gives it a
mechanical resistance.
However, there is no
concoction of this type that
can develop carbon or coal.
An organic material
inside the metal
makes it extremely
interesting and unique.
>> If these extraordinary
discoveries could be confirmed,
the piece that Jose Padilla
and Remijio Baca extracted from
the ship as a souvenir in 1945
could become an extraordinary
advance for humanity.
A case that has remained
unknown to most people--
why would researchers
dismiss the findings
without even having
investigated the findings?
This would have been the
first case of a UFO recovered
by the US government, the
first of three foreign objects
recovered around
the Los Alamos plant
in New Mexico, the only
area that designed and built
atomic bombs at that time.
Later, two more ships
would crash land
in Roswell and
Austin, New Mexico.
We discovered that those
crashes very possibly
were a result of
powerful radars.
We will prove that
hypothesis in future
shows as this investigation
continues to unfold.
You will see the memo that Guy
Hotell addressed to J. Edgar
Hoover, informing him of
three ships that crashed
into Mexico in the 1940s.
>> The memo Guy Hotell addressed
to Edgar Hoover reporting
on the three objects that
crashed in New Mexico before
1950 was becoming a reality.
I am Jaime Maussan,
and I'll see you
on the next episode of "Nuevo".
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presented "Nuevo,"
with Jaime Maussan.